.\" 
.\" Copyright (c) 2011, Gordon D. Carrie. All rights reserved.
.\" 
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 
.\"     * Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"     notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\"     * Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"     notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"     documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS
.\" "AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT
.\" LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR
.\" A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT
.\" HOLDER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL,
.\" SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED
.\" TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR
.\" PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF
.\" LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING
.\" NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS
.\" SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.\" 
.\" Please address questions and feedback to dev0@trekix.net
.\" 
.\" $Revision: 1.13 $ $Date: 2013/02/20 18:40:25 $
.\"
.TH hash 3 "Hash tables"
.SH NAME
Hash_Init, Hash_Clear, Hash_Add, Hash_Set, Hash_Get, Hash_Print, Hash_Adj, Hash_Rm, Hash_Sz \- general hash table functions
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
\fBint\fP \fBHash_Init(\fP\fBstruct Hash_Tbl *\fP\fItblP\fP, \fBunsigned\fP \fIn_buckets\fP);
\fBvoid\fP \fBHash_Clear(\fP\fBstruct Hash_Tbl *\fP\fItblP\fP);
\fBunsigned\fP \fBHash\fP(\fBconst char *\fP\fIkey\fP, \fBunsigned\fP \fIn_buckets\fP);
\fBint\fP \fBHash_Add(\fP\fBstruct Hash_Tbl *\fP\fItblP\fP, \fBconst char *\fP\fIkey\fP, \fBvoid\fP *\fIval\fP);
\fBint\fP \fBHash_Set(\fP\fBstruct Hash_Tbl *\fP\fItblP\fP, \fBconst char *\fP\fIkey\fP, \fBvoid\fP *\fIval\fP);
\fBvoid\fP *\fBHash_Get(\fP\fBstruct Hash_Tbl *\fP\fItblP\fP, \fBconst char *\fP\fIkey\fP);
\fBvoid\fP \fBHash_Print\fP(\fBstruct Hash_Tbl *\fP\fItblP\fP);
\fBint\fP \fBHash_Adj(\fP\fBstruct Hash_Tbl *\fP\fItblP\fP, \fBunsigned\fP \fIn_buckets_2\fP);
\fBvoid\fP \fBHash_Rm(\fP\fBstruct Hash_Tbl *\fP\fItblP\fP, \fBconst char *\fP\fIkey\fP);
\fBvoid\fP \fBHash_Sz(\fP\fBstruct Hash_Tbl *\fP\fItblP\fP, \fBunsigned\fP *\fIn_bucketsP\fP, \fBunsigned *\fP\fIn_entriesP\fP,
	\fBunsigned\fP *\fIbiggestP\fP);
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBHash_Init\fP initializes a new hash table at \fItblP\fP. The value at \fItblP\fP
should be garbage.  \fIn_buckets\fP gives the number of buckets.  Table will not
grow, and may become slow to access, if the number of entries exceeds
the number of buckets.  If \fIn_buckets\fP > 0, memory is allocated in the table,
and the table is ready for use.  If \fIn_buckets\fP == 0, no memory is allocated,
and the table is initialized with bogus values.  The table is not safe for use, but
is safe to give to \fBHash_Clear\fP. If successful, it returns true. If
something goes wrong, it prints an error message to stderr
and returns false.

\fBHash_Clear\fP empties the hash table at \fItblP\fP, which should have been
initialized with a call to \fBHash_Init\fP.  Memory associated with the table is
freed and the table is reinitialized with no buckets.

\fBHash\fP computes a hash table index given key \fIkey\fP and number of buckets
\fIn_buckets\fP. Return value is a pseudo-random integer in range
\fB[0,\ \fP\fIn_buckets\fP\fB)\fP.

\fBHash_Add\fP attempts to create an entry in the hash table at \fItblP\fP with key
\fIkey\fP and corresponding value \fIval\fP.  It returns true if it succeeds.  If
the table already has an entry for \fIkey\fP, or if something goes wrong,
\fBHash_Add\fP returns false and prints an error message to stderr.

\fBHash_Set\fP creates or sets an entry in the hash table at \fItblP\fP with key
\fIkey\fP and corresponding value \fIval\fP.  It returns true if it succeeds.
If something goes wrong, \fBHash_Set\fP returns false and prints an error message
to stderr.

\fBHash_Get\fP retrieves the value from the hash table at \fItblP\fP corresponding
to \fIkey\fP.  If \fItblP\fP has an entry for \fIkey\fP, the corresponding value is
copied to address \fIlp\fP and \fBHash_Get\fP returns true.  Otherwise,
\fBHash_Get\fP returns false.

\fBHash_Print\fP \fItblP\fP prints the hash table at \fItblP\fP to standard
output.  For each bucket, there will be an output line of form:
.nf

    \fB[(\fP\fIkey1 value1\fP\fB)(\fP\fIkey2 value2\fP\fB)\fP...\fB]\fP

.fi
A line of form \fB[]\fP indicates an empty bucket.

\fBHash_Adj\fP sets the number of buckets in the hash table at \fItblP\fP to
\fIn_buckets2\fP.  It returns true if it succeeds.  If something goes wrong,
\fBHash_Adj\fP returns false and prints an error message to stderr.

\fBHash_Rm\fP removes the entry with key \fIkey\fP from the hash table at
\fItblP\fP.

\fBHash_Sz\fP retrieves information about the size of the hash table at \fItblP\fP.
It copies the number of buckets to address \fIn_bucketsP\fP, the number of entries
to address \fIn_entriesP\fP, and the number of entries in the biggest bucket to
address \fIbiggestP\fP.  It quietly does nothing if \fItblP\fP is
\fBNULL\fP.
