.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2011 Gordon D. Carrie
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Please send feedback to dev0@trekix.net
.\"
.\" $Revision: $ $Date: $
.Pp
.Dd $Mdocdate$
.Dt SIGMET 3
.Os UNIX
.Sh NAME
.Nm Sigmet_NoData,
.Nm Sigmet_IsData,
.Nm Sigmet_IsNoData,
.Nm Sigmet_Bin4Rad,
.Nm Sigmet_Bin2Rad,
.Nm Sigmet_RadBin4,
.Nm Sigmet_RadBin2,
.Nm Sigmet_DataType_GetN,
.Nm Sigmet_DataType_Abbrv,
.Nm Sigmet_DataType_Descr,
.Nm Sigmet_DataType_Unit,
.Nm Sigmet_DataType_StorFmt,
.Nm Sigmet_DataType_StorToComp,
.Nd represent Sigmet raw data
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Fd "#include <sigmet.h>"
.Ft int
.Fn Sigmet_DataType_GetN "char *field_name" "enum Sigmet_DataTypeN *y_p"
.Ft char *
.Fn Sigmet_DataType_Abbrv "enum Sigmet_DataTypeN y"
.Ft char *
.Fn Sigmet_DataType_Descr "enum Sigmet_DataTypeN y"
.Ft char *
.Fn Sigmet_DataType_Unit "enum Sigmet_DataTypeN y"
.Ft enum DataType_StorFmt
.Fn Sigmet_DataType_StorFmt "enum Sigmet_DataTypeN y"
.Ft DataType_StorToCompFn
.Fn Sigmet_DataType_StorToComp "enum Sigmet_DataTypeN y"
.Ft float
.Fn Sigmet_NoData "void"
.Ft int
.Fn Sigmet_IsData "float v"
.Ft int
.Fn Sigmet_IsNoData "float v"
.Ft double
.Fn Sigmet_Bin4Rad "unsigned long b"
.Ft double
.Fn Sigmet_Bin2Rad "unsigned short b"
.Ft unsigned long
.Fn Sigmet_RadBin4 "double a"
.Ft unsigned long
.Fn Sigmet_RadBin2 "double a"
.Sh DESCRIPTION
These structures and functions identify and manipulate data obtained
from Sigmet raw product volumes.  See
.Rs
.%R IRIS Programmer's Manual
.%D September 2002
.Re
for more information.
.Pp
A Sigmet data type is identified by an integer constant which must
be member of:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
enum Sigmet_DataTypeN {
    DB_XHDR,    DB_DBT,         DB_DBZ,         DB_VEL,         DB_WIDTH,
    DB_ZDR,     DB_DBZC,        DB_DBT2,        DB_DBZ2,        DB_VEL2,
    DB_WIDTH2,  DB_ZDR2,        DB_RAINRATE2,   DB_KDP,         DB_KDP2,
    DB_PHIDP,   DB_VELC,        DB_SQI,         DB_RHOHV,       DB_RHOHV2,
    DB_DBZC2,   DB_VELC2,       DB_SQI2,        DB_PHIDP2,      DB_LDRH,
    DB_LDRH2,   DB_LDRV,        DB_LDRV2
};

.Ed
.Pp
.Fn Sigmet_DataType_GetN
finds the Sigmet data type enumerator corresponding to field name
.Fa field_name
which must be a string whose contents are the name of a Sigmet_DataTypeN enumerator.
If there is one, it places it the enumerator value at
.Fa y_p
and returns true. Otherwise it returns false.
.Pp
.Fn Sigmet_DataType_Abbrv
returns a field name describing type
.Fa y ,
which must be a Sigmet_DataTypeN enumerator.
.Pp
.Fn Sigmet_DataType_Descr
returns a longer description for
.Fa y .
.Pp
.Fn Sigmet_DataType_Unit
returns a physical unit, which could be
.Li \&"none\&" .
.Pp
.Fn Sigmet_DataType_Abbrv ,
.Fn Sigmet_DataType_Descr ,
and
.Fn Sigmet_DataType_Unit
return
.Li NULL
if
.Fa y
is out of range.  Return values of these functions should not be modified by the user.
.Pp
.Fn Sigmet_DataType_StorFmt
returns the storage format for data type
.Fa y ,
as described in
.Xr data_types 3 .
.Pp
.Fn Sigmet_DataType_StorToComp
returns a function that converts a storage value to a computational value
(measurement).
.Pp
.Fn Sigmet_NoData
returns a value indicating missing of invalid data.
.Pp
.Fn Sigmet_IsData
returns true if
.Fa v
is not the return value from
.Fn Sigmet_NoData .
.Pp
.Fn Sigmet_IsNoData
returns true if
.Fa v
is the return value from
.Fn Sigmet_NoData .
.Pp
.Fn Sigmet_Bin4Rad
returns the angle in radians corresponding to Sigmet four byte binary angle
.Fa b .
.Pp
.Fn Sigmet_Bin2Rad
returns the angle in radians corresponding to Sigmet two byte binary angle
.Fa b .
.Pp
.Fn Sigmet_RadBin4
returns the Sigmet four byte binary angle
.Fa a
corresponding to angle in radians.
.Pp
.Fn Sigmet_RadBin2
returns the Sigmet two byte binary angle
.Fa a
corresponding to angle in radians.
.Sh KEYWORDS
radar sigmet data
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr Err_Get 3 ,
.Xr sigmet_raw 1
.Rs
.%B IRIS Programmer's Manual
.Re
.Sh AUTHOR
Gordon Carrie (dev0@trekix.net)
