.\" 
.\" Copyright (c) 2011, Gordon D. Carrie. All rights reserved.
.\" 
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 
.\"     * Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"     notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\"     * Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"     notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"     documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS
.\" "AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT
.\" LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR
.\" A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT
.\" HOLDER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL,
.\" SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED
.\" TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR
.\" PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF
.\" LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING
.\" NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS
.\" SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.\" 
.\" Please address questions and feedback to dev0@trekix.net
.\"
.\" $Revision: 1.10 $ $Date: 2014/10/20 22:54:51 $
.\"
.Dd $Mdocdate$
.Dt tm_calc 1
.Os UNIX
.Nm NAME
.Nm Tm_CalToJul
.Nm Tm_JulToCal
.Nd basic time conversions.
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Fd "#include <tm_calc_lib.h>"
.Ft double
.Fn Tm_CalToJul "int year" "int month" "int day" "int hour" "int minute" "double second"
.Ft int
.Fn Tm_JulToCal "double julian_day" "int *year" "int *month" "int *day" "int *hour" "int *minute" "double *second"
.Sh DESCRIPTION
These functions convert back and forth between calendar and clock time
representations and Julian days.
.Pp
.Fn Tm_CalToJul
returns the Julian day corresponding to
.Fa year
.Fa month
.Fa day
.Fa hour
.Fa minute
.Fa second .
.Pp
.Fn Tm_JulToCal
puts the calendar and clock time values for Julian time
.Fa julian_day
into
.Fa year
.Fa month
.Fa day
.Fa hour
.Fa minute
.Fa second .
It quietly skips
.Dv NULL
pointers.
If successful, it returns true.  If something goes wrong,
it prints an error message to standard error and returns
false.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr tm_calc 1 ,
.Rs
.%A H. F. Fliegel and T. C. Van Flandern
.%T Letters to the editor: a machine algorithm for processing calendar dates.
.%J Communications of the ACM archive
.%V 11
.%N 10
.%D October 1968
.%P 657
.%O ISSN:0001-0782 
.Re
.Sh KEYWORDS
time calendar julian
.Sh AUTHOR
Gordon Carrie (dev0@trekix.net)
