.Dd March 14, 2011
.Os UNIX
.Dt CLSEM 1
.Sh CLSEM
.Nm clsem
.Nd Command line interface to System 7 semaphore facility.
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm clsem
.Fl V
.Nm clsem
.Fl c
.Ar path
.Op Ar id
.Nm clsem
.Ar i
.Ar path
.Op Ar id
.Nm clsem
.Fl v
.Ar path
.Op Ar id
.Nm clsem
.Fl d
.Ar path
.Op Ar id
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm clsem
utility provides a command line interface to the Unix System 7 semaphore
facility.
.Bl -ohang
.It Nm clsem Fl V
prints version information and exits.
.It Nm clsem Fl c Ar path Op Ar id
creates a new semaphore keyed to the file system entry at
.Ar path .
A single character
.Ar id
can further differentiate the semaphore. The semaphore is initialized with value
.Dv 0 .
The specified semaphore must not already exist.  If successful, this command
prints the semaphore identifier.
.It Nm clsem Ar i Ar path Op Ar id
increments the semaphore by integer
.Ar i .
The
.Nm clsem
process blocks if a negative increment would make the semaphore value negative.
See
.Xr semop 2 .
.It Nm clsem Fl v Ar path Op Ar id
prints the value of the semaphore.
.It Nm clsem Fl d Ar path Op Ar id
deletes the semaphore.
.Ar path
remains.
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr ipcs 1 ,
.Xr ipcrm 1 ,
.Xr semctl 2 ,
.Xr semop 2
.Sh STANDARDS
The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 7.
IEEE Std 1003.1#-2008
.Sh CAVEATS
If
.Ar path
is deleted, the semaphore still exists, but
.Nm clsem
can no longer access it.  In this case, the semaphore must be eventually found
and deleted with calls to
.Xr ipcs 1
and
.Xr ipcrm 1 .
.Sh BUGS
Same as
.Xr ftok 3
and
.Xr semctl 3 .
.Sh AUTHORS
.An "Gordon D. Carrie" Aq dev0 at trekix.net
