.\" 
.\" Manual for mk_type_nbit application.
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2011, Gordon D. Carrie. All rights reserved.
.\" 
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 
.\"     * Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"     notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\"     * Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"     notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"     documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS
.\" "AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT
.\" LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR
.\" A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT
.\" HOLDER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL,
.\" SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED
.\" TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR
.\" PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF
.\" LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING
.\" NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS
.\" SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.\" 
.\" Please address questions and feedback to dev0@trekix.net
.\" 
.\" $Revision: 1.6 $ $Date: 2011/11/28 16:43:20 $
.\"
.TH mk_type_nbit 1 "Type headers"
.SH NAME
mk_type_nbit \- create a header file with explicitly sized types
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBmk_type_nbit\fP [> \fBtype_nbit.h\fP]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBmk_type_nbit\fP prints a header file of typedef's that associates standard
C integer types with locally defined types whose sizes are explicitly given in
the type name.
.PP
A line in \fBtype_nbit.h\fP of form:
"\fBtypedef\fP\ \fIc-type\fP\ \fBU\fP\fIn\fP\fBBIT\fP;"
declares an unsigned integer type with \fIn\fP bits that is equivalent to built in
C type \fBc-type\fP.
.PP
A line in \fBtype_nbit.h\fP of form:
"\fBtypedef\fP\ \fIc-type\fP\ \fBI\fP\fIn\fP\fBBIT\fP;"
declares a unsigned integer type with \fIn\fP bits that is equivalent to built in
C type \fBc-type\fP.
.PP
\fBtype_nbit.h\fP also defines several macros that perform bit and byte swapping.
\fBSWAP2BYT\fP swaps 2 bytes.
\fBSWAP4BYT\fP swaps 2 bytes.
\fBSWAP16IBT\fP swaps 16 bits.
\fBSWAP32BIT\fP swaps 32 bits.
.SH AUTHOR
Gordon Carrie (dev0@trekix.net)
