.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2014, Gordon D. Carrie. All rights reserved.
.\" 
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 
.\"     * Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"     notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\"     * Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"     notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"     documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS
.\" "AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT
.\" LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR
.\" A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT
.\" HOLDER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL,
.\" SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED
.\" TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR
.\" PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF
.\" LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING
.\" NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS
.\" SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"
.\" Please address questions and feedback to dev0@trekix.net
.\"
.\" $Revision: $ $Date: $
.\"
.Dd $Mdocdate$
.Dt PISA 1
.Os Unix
.Sh NAME
.Nm pisa
.Nd Creates an SVG document with a Cartesian plot in it.
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm pisa
.Op Fl d Ar fragment
.Op Fl l Ar pixels
.Op Fl r Ar pixels
.Op Fl t Ar pixels
.Op Fl b Ar pixels
.Op Fl w Ar pixels
.Op Fl h Ar pixels
.Op Fl f Ar pixels
.Op Fl m Ar precison
.Op Fl n Ar precison
.Op Fl X Ar string
.Op Fl Y Ar string
.Op Fl p Ar prefix_file
.Op Fl s Ar suffix_file
.Op Fl y Ar style_sheet
.Ar x_left
.Ar x_rght
.Ar y_btm
.Ar y_top
.Sh DESCRIPTION
This script creates an SVG document with a Cartesian plot, axes, labels,
and optional elements. The plot area will be bounded by
.Ar x_left ,
.Ar x_rght ,
.Ar y_btm ,
.Ar y_top ,
on the left, right, bottom, and top edges, respectively, all specified in
Cartesian coordinates. The process will print to standard output code for a
SVG document with the specified options and defaults. It will define a plot
element transformed to the specified Cartesian coordinate system. Then it
will pass standard input to standard output. Standard input should contain
SVG elements to place in the plot area. Locations in these elements should
be specified in Cartesian coordinates. The transformation for the plot element
will flip and scale the elements so that they are properly displayed in the
plot area. At end of input, the process will print code to finish the document.
.Sh OPTIONS
.Bl -tag -width flag
.It Fl d
Fragment type. If
.Ql document ,
outermost SVG element will include headers for a standalone SVG document. If
.Ql inline ,
outermost SVG element will be a bare element to be included in a documents.
.It Fl l
space between left edge of document and left edge of plot area, pixels.
.It Fl r
space between right edge of document and right edge of plot area, pixels.
right margin, pixels.
.It Fl t
space between top edge of document and top edge of plot area, pixels.
.It Fl b
space between bottom edge of document and bottom edge of plot area, pixels.
.It Fl w
document width, pixels.
.It Fl h
document height, pixels.
.It Fl f
font size, pixels.
.It Fl m
number of significant figures in x axis labels.
.It Fl n
number of significant figures in y axis labels.
.It Fl X
x axis title
.It Fl Y
y axis title
.It Fl p
File with SVG code to print before the plot. Visible elements will appear to
be under the plot.  It could also contain meta data, such as links to script
files. This option can be repeated. Referenced files will be concatenated in
the output.
.It Fl s
File with SVG code to print after the plot. Visible elements will appear to
be on top of the plot.  It could also contain meta data, such as links to script
files. This option can be repeated. Referenced files will be concatenated in
the output.
.It Fl y
path to a CSS style sheet. This option can be repeated.
.El
.Sh ATTRIBUTES
Certain SVG elements will have the following
.Em id
attributes, accessible to scripts and style sheets:
.Bl -tag -width PlotBoundary
.It Em PlotRect
Plot rectangle
.It Em PlotBoundary
Border around the plot area
.It Em plot
SVG element with the Cartesian plot
.El
Interactive elements like buttons are assigned to a
.Em interactive
class with visibility initialized to
.Em hidden .
This prevents clutter in static SVG documents. Scripts for interactive documents
should change their visibility to
.Em visible .
.Sh CAVEATS
The plot area uses Cartesian coordinates for everything. Therefore, graphical
dimensions, such as font-size and stroke-width, should use some appropriate
Cartesian size, not pixels.
.Sh ETYMOLOGY
.Nm pisa
is Choctaw for
.Ql view .
.Sh AUTHOR
Gordon Carrie (dev0@trekix.net)
