.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2014, Gordon D. Carrie. All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\"
.\"     * Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"     notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\"     * Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"     notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"     documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS
.\" "AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT
.\" LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR
.\" A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT
.\" HOLDER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL,
.\" SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED
.\" TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR
.\" PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF
.\" LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING
.\" NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS
.\" SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"
.\" Please address questions and feedback to dev0@trekix.net
.\"
.Dd $Mdocdate$
.Dt SIG_RAW 1
.Os Unix
.Sh NAME
.Nm sig_raw
.Nd interact with a
.Nm sigmet_raw
daemon.
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm sig_raw
.Ar command
.Op Ar args
.Sh DESCRIPTION
This convenience script sends
.Ar command
to a
.Nm sigmet_raw
process running in daemon mode. See
.Xr sigmet_raw 1
for discussion of known commands.  It prints the result to standard output. The
.Nm sigmet_raw
daemon must be reading commands from a fifo identified by the
.Ev SIGMET_RAW_IN
environment variable.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr sigmet_raw 1
.Sh AUTHOR
Gordon Carrie (dev0@trekix.net)
