.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2012, Gordon D. Carrie. All rights reserved.
.\" 
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 
.\"     * Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"     notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\"     * Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"     notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"     documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS
.\" "AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT
.\" LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR
.\" A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT
.\" HOLDER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL,
.\" SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED
.\" TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR
.\" PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF
.\" LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING
.\" NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS
.\" SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"
.\" Please address questions and feedback to dev0@trekix.net
.\"
.\" $Revision: 1.1 $ $Date: 2012/04/24 22:21:54 $
.\"
.Dd $Mdocdate$
.Dt SIGMET_HDR 1
.Os Unix
.Sh NAME
.Nm sigmet_hdr
.Nd retrieve header information from Sigmet raw volumes
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm sigmet_hdr
.Op Fl a
.Ar raw_product_file
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The 
.Nm sigmet_hdr
command prints header information from Sigmet raw product volume.
.Ar raw_product_file
identifies the raw product volume, which can be a path to a file or
.Li -
for standard input.  Values are those obtained from product header and ingest
data header of the raw file.  Ray headers and data are not printed.  Output
lines have form:
.Bd -filled
    \fIvalue\fP \fB|\fP \fIhierarchy\fP \fB|\fP \fIdescriptor\fP

.Ed
In this context, hierarchy refers to the Sigmet data
structures described in the IRIS Programmer's Manual that contain the member,
e.g.
.Bd -filled
    \fI<ingest_header>.<ingest_configuration>.num_sweeps\fP

.Ed
This format is easy for other processes to filter and manipulate, but hard to
read on a screen. For a more readable list, filter with something like:
.Bd -filled
    \fBsigmet_raw\fP \fBvolume_headers\fP \fIraw_file\fP \fB\ \\
    | awk -F\ \&| '{printf "%s = %s\\n %s\\n\\n", $2, $1, $3}'\fP

.Ed
Be aware that the same member might reside in several structure
hierarchies. See the IRIS Programmer's Manual for details.

With
.Fl a
this command prints commonly used volume headers. Output will look like:
.Bd -filled
    \fBsite_name\fP="\fIsite_name_from_setup\fP"
    \fBradar_lon\fP=\fIlongitude_degrees\fP
    \fBradar_lat\fP=\fIlatitude_degrees\fP
    \fBtask_name\fP="\fItask_name\fP"
    \fBtypes\fP="\fItype_name\fP \fItype_name\fP ..."
    \fBnum_sweeps\fP=\fIinteger\fP
    \fBnum_rays\fP=\fIinteger\fP
    \fBnum_bins\fP=\fIinteger\fP
    \fBrange_bin0\fP=\fIinteger_cm\fP
    \fBbin_step\fP=\fIinteger_cm\fP

.Ed
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr sigmet_raw 1 ,
.Xr sigmet_data 3 ,
.Xr sigmet_vol 3
.Rs
.%B IRIS Programmer's Manual
.Re
.Sh AUTHOR
Gordon Carrie (dev0@trekix.net)
