.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2011, Gordon D. Carrie. All rights reserved.
.\" 
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 
.\"     * Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"     notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\"     * Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"     notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"     documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS
.\" "AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT
.\" LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR
.\" A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT
.\" HOLDER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL,
.\" SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED
.\" TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR
.\" PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF
.\" LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING
.\" NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS
.\" SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"
.\" Please address questions and feedback to dev0@trekix.net
.\"
.\" $Revision: $ $Date: $
.\"
.Dd $Mdocdate$
.Dt SIGMET_CORRECT 1
.Os Unix
.Sh NAME
.Nm sigmet_correct
.Nd apply corrections to Sigmet volumes in memory.
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm sigmet_correct Ar correction_file Ar socket
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The 
.Nm sigmet_correct
command modifies the memory contents of a daemon started with the
.Nm sigmet_raw
.Ar load
command. It does not modify any Sigmet raw product file that provided the
original data to
.Nm sigmet_raw
.Ar load .
To save the modified values, write them with output commands
such as
.Nm sigmet_raw
.Ar data
or
.Nm sigmet_raw
.Ar dorade .
File
.Ar correction_file
describes the desired modifications.
The
.Ar socket
argument identified a socket that communicates with a
.Nm sigmet_raw
daemon. It should have been given as an argument to the
.Nm sigmet_raw
.Ar load
command.
.Sh COMMANDS
The following lines in
.Ar correction_file
are recognized. All others are ignored.
.Bl -ohang
.It Nm New field Li | Ar data_type Li | Ar description Li | Ar unit
Creates a new field in the volume. It's values are initialized to a value
interpreted as unknown.
.Ar data_type ,
.Ar description ,
and
.Ar unit
are given to a call to
.Nm sigmet_raw
.Ar new_field .
See
.Xr sigmet_raw 1
for details.
.It Nm Copy Ar source Li to Ar dest
Replaces all values in
.Ar dest
with corresponding values from
.Ar source .
Both fields should be defined in the volume. They should either be implicit
Sigmet data types, or fabrications created by a previous
.Nm New field
entry.
.It Nm Add Ar scalar Li to Ar field
Replaces all values of
.Ar field
with
.Ar field
+
.Ar scalar .
.It Nm Multiply Ar field Li by Ar scalar
Replaces all values of
.Ar field
with
.Ar field
*
.Ar scalar .
.It Nm Increment time Li by Ar dt Li seconds
Adds
.Ar dt
seconds to all times in the volume.
.It Nm Radar lat Li = Ar latitude
Sets radar latitude to
.Ar latitude
decimal degrees north.
.It Nm Radar lon Li = Ar longitude
Sets radar longitude to
.Ar longitude
decimal degrees east.
.It Nm Add Ar delta_az Li degrees to all azimuths
Adds
.Ar delta_az
decimal degrees to ray azimuths.
.It Nm Delete Ar field
Deletes
.Ar field ,
if present in the volume.
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr sigmet_raw 1
.Rs
.%B IRIS Programmer's Manual
.Re
.Sh AUTHOR
Gordon Carrie (dev0@trekix.net)
